README.md, before:

## Terms
HEAD is the tip of the current branch.
TIP is the most recent commit of a branch.

## Init Git itself

    apt-get install git
    apt-get install gitk

    git config --global user.name  "Peter Buchmann"
    git config --global user.email "peter.buchmann@idealo.de"

    git config --global color.ui auto
    git config --global core.pager "less -FRSX"

Prevent git from pushing ALL branches that have the same name on the remote

    git config --global push.default tracking  

### Init a Repository
    git remote add origin_playground git@github.com:pbberlin/playground.git
    git clone
or

    git clone ssh://peter.buchmann@gerrit.ipx:29418/Puppet.git
    git clone ssh://peter.buchmann@gerrit.ipx:29418/Puppet.git  [target dir - distinct of {1}.git]

Create a completely new Repository 

    cd [working dir]
    git init  

Change remote repository URL from https to ssh

    git remote set-url origin ssh://peter.buchmann@gerrit.ipx:29418/Puppet.git
    cd .git/hooks/
    scp -P 29418 peter.buchmann@gerrit.ipx:hooks/commit-msg .



Rename a remote repository

    git remote -v
    git remote rename [old_name]  [new_name]



# Making Changes

creating and checking out a feature branch that tracks "origin/feature"

    git checkout -t origin/feature

    git branch [-d], checkout

    git add [files]                            # stage files, files I want push to repo ORIGIN or repo GERRIT
    git rm  [files]                            # unstage

    git commit    -m "my commit message"   

    git commit -a -m "my commit message"   # -a => committing not just the staged files - since last ADD, but ALL

Amend towards last commit

    git commit -a -m "my commit message"   --amend

Amend towards a gerrit repo

    git commit  --amend            # push typos posthumously ,  omit -m
    
*im Editor*
```Shell
[paste last change ID from http gerrit]ENTER
ENTER
[enter my amend comment]
```

Adding notes

    git notes add   # adding to last commit - does not change history



### Pushing - non Gerrit
    git push
    git push -u [remote_repo]            [branch]  # -u for upstream - setting up tracking , default for branch is current
    git push -u  github_pbberlin_playground    master  #  example


### Pushing - to Gerrit
Here we push to the magic branch that creates reviews that target the master branch. 
For every branch Gerrit tracks there is a magic refs/for/<branch_name> that you push to create reviews.

    git push    origin        HEAD:refs/for/master   

### If Remote Changes have Occurred:
    git fetch        # do NOT use git pull (mingling fetch+merge)
    git merge [repo]/[branch]

For example

    git merge github_pbberlin_playground/master      # merging remote master (after git fetch)
    git merge                            issue56     # merging local branch issue56
    git mergetool

   
Instead of merging, there is also rebase.

    git pull --rebase 

Or even

    git rebase # extreme caution !

Beware of rebasing towards public repos, cause it changes previous commits and forces other contributors to repeat their merging work.



# Analyse - big picture
    gitk
    
    git branch -a
    git branch -r
    
    git log
    git log --oneline --decorate       #  Show branches, tags in git log
    git log --author="Jon"
    git log --author="\(Adam\)\|\(Jon\)"

    git show 50f3754                   #  info on a commit
    git show :/fix                     #  the last commit which has the word "fix" in its message
    git show :/^Merge                  #  shows the last merge commit
    git name-rev --name-only 50f3754   #  tell us the position of a commit relative to tags
    git branch   --contains 50f3754    #  Find out which branch contains a change


# Analyse - current commit
    git status
    git status -s                  # short
    git diff 
    git diff --word-diff           # word wise git


## Squashing Commits
See git squash and pick

    git rebase -i HEAD~3  # last three commits
    git rebase -i master

```
Ctrl \
pick
squash
A
```
    
    git rebase --abort  # abort 
    
    


## Going Back 
    git reset --hard [target commit hash ] 
For example

    git reset --hard 48cffce1fe
    

### Preserve Uncommitted Changes when Changing Branches
    git stash


# marker

Commit message:

git remote show - remote branch categories

README.md, after:

## Terms
HEAD is the tip of the current branch.
TIP is the most recent commit of a branch.
ORIGIN is an alias for the remote repository. It is created by git clone, during cloning

## Init Git itself

    apt-get install git
    apt-get install gitk

    git config --global user.name  "Peter Buchmann"
    git config --global user.email "peter.buchmann@idealo.de"

    git config --global color.ui auto
    git config --global core.pager "less -FRSX"

Prevent git from pushing ALL branches that have the same name on the remote

    git config --global push.default tracking  

### Init a Repository
    git remote add origin_playground git@github.com:pbberlin/playground.git
    git clone
or

    git clone ssh://peter.buchmann@gerrit.ipx:29418/Puppet.git
    git clone ssh://peter.buchmann@gerrit.ipx:29418/Puppet.git  [target dir - distinct of {1}.git]

Create a completely new Repository 

    cd [working dir]
    git init  

Change remote repository URL from https to ssh

    git remote set-url origin ssh://peter.buchmann@gerrit.ipx:29418/Puppet.git
    cd .git/hooks/
    scp -P 29418 peter.buchmann@gerrit.ipx:hooks/commit-msg .



Rename a remote repository

    git remote -v
    git remote rename [old_name]  [new_name]


Check a remote repository
    
    git remote show origin

Here we also see
* new remote branches (remotely created)
* stale remote branches (remotely deleted)
* remote "tracked" branches
* automatically pushed/merged branches


# Making Changes

creating and checking out a feature branch that tracks "origin/feature"

    git checkout -t origin/feature

    git branch [-d], checkout

    git add [files]                            # stage files, files I want push to repo ORIGIN or repo GERRIT
    git rm  [files]                            # unstage

    git commit    -m "my commit message"   

    git commit -a -m "my commit message"   # -a => committing not just the staged files - since last ADD, but ALL

Amend towards last commit

    git commit -a -m "my commit message"   --amend

Amend towards a gerrit repo

    git commit  --amend            # push typos posthumously ,  omit -m
    
*im Editor*
```Shell
[paste last change ID from http gerrit]ENTER
ENTER
[enter my amend comment]
```

Adding notes

    git notes add   # adding to last commit - does not change history



### Pushing - non Gerrit
    git push
    git push -u [remote_repo]            [branch]  # -u for upstream - setting up tracking , default for branch is current
    git push -u  github_pbberlin_playground    master  #  example


### Pushing - to Gerrit
Here we push to the magic branch that creates reviews that target the master branch. 
For every branch Gerrit tracks there is a magic refs/for/<branch_name> that you push to create reviews.

    git push    origin        HEAD:refs/for/master   

### If Remote Changes have Occurred:
    git fetch        # do NOT use git pull (mingling fetch+merge)
    git merge [repo]/[branch]

For example

    git merge github_pbberlin_playground/master      # merging remote master (after git fetch)
    git merge                            issue56     # merging local branch issue56
    git mergetool

   
Instead of merging, there is also rebase.

    git pull --rebase 

Or even

    git rebase # extreme caution !

Beware of rebasing towards public repos, cause it changes previous commits and forces other contributors to repeat their merging work.



# Analyse - big picture
    gitk
    
    git branch -a
    git branch -r
    
    git log
    git log --oneline --decorate       #  Show branches, tags in git log
    git log --author="Jon"
    git log --author="\(Adam\)\|\(Jon\)"

    git show 50f3754                   #  info on a commit
    git show :/fix                     #  the last commit which has the word "fix" in its message
    git show :/^Merge                  #  shows the last merge commit
    git name-rev --name-only 50f3754   #  tell us the position of a commit relative to tags
    git branch   --contains 50f3754    #  Find out which branch contains a change


# Analyse - current commit
    git status
    git status -s                  # short
    git diff 
    git diff --word-diff           # word wise git


## Squashing Commits
See git squash and pick

    git rebase -i HEAD~3  # last three commits
    git rebase -i master

```
Ctrl \
pick
squash
A
```
    
    git rebase --abort  # abort 
    
    


## Going Back 
    git reset --hard [target commit hash ] 
For example

    git reset --hard 48cffce1fe
    

### Preserve Uncommitted Changes when Changing Branches
    git stash


# marker
